Author: Mauricio I. Reyes Villanueva\
Due: October 15, 2024

## Scenario 2 Responses:

Some ethical concerns that arise when I think of the fact that Beerz is considering using and selling their customers user data, is the fact that up to this point they have been pitching their product as providing a "useful service to users in exchange for a modest subscription fee." They also go on to state that they are not participating "in surveillance capitalism" and going on to say that they "protect" their users' data while they have it. Up to this point this has been the pitch the CTO has been giving, and by embarking in recapturing old location data, they are going back on their word. Ethically this is wrong. As stated in the *ACM Code of Ethics and Professional Codunct* you should be honest and trustworthy. If you say that you are protecting a users data while you have it, and discarding it once you're done with it, then you should honor that statement until you say otherwise.

It would be one thing to completely revamp the companies pitch and start anew with a different pitch, and a new way of handling data from then on, but it's another thing to attempt scavage through old records to recuperate previous data that was, at least, in the users eyes, "discarded." 

Ethically, there is nothing wrong with using user data as long as you respect a users privacy, if anything it's even perfectly comprehensible to do so because so much research depends on user data. This can be perfectly acceptable as long as you update your privacy policy in a notable manner, and change gears on the pitch when doing so. It's only when you cross the boundaries of lying about it and going back on your word that it truly becomes problematic.

In this case it would be best to address these concerns with the CTO so they're not put into a bad spot due to their pitch, but also to speak directly with the CEO and the "profoundly clueless fellow" to discuss the ethical concerns that this would create. It is important for them to understand that using previous data that was "discarded" should not be touched. If anything the travel records of that data should even be further cleaned up so that no one else can possibly get their hands on it through improper means.

If the company still wants to keep its values about protecting user data, an alternative approach that meets more in the middle can be taken. One such example would be the idea of requesting user permission when aggregating a users data, and completely anonymizing it. For example, ask a user if they'd like to keep track of how many times they visited so and so bars and where they went after in a public way, and ask the user if they agree to having this information publicly available, in their records under an anonymized context (so not linking any of the user data, to the location data) for the usage of sale or other reasonable means. A consequence to this approach may be that users do not like the idea of their location data being tracked, even if anonymous. This could thereby go on to lead to a loss of customers.

Each stakeholder deserves to know to what extent the customer data is being used, and how it's being used (at least to the level of the companies awareness). For example, it should be publicly known if user data is sold, and if so, to what sort of companies. *Who will use the data and how?*

Some information that may be useful when evaluating this scenario would be, just how much is the "modest subscription fee"? And is there only a premium plan, or is there a free version of the app? What about the user pool, how large is the current user pool for the app? Are there any competitors who may or may not keep track of user data and locations? To who is the data being sold, and how is it being used?

Alternatively, an additional action that can be taken, especially when relating back to the premium subscription, would be the idea of creating (if not already existant) a free version of the app, and keeping the current subscription version as is. The benefit to this could be that Beerz could have two user pools: one who pays and one who doesn't, yet benefit from both. In creating a free version, they can explicitly state that in return for proving users with a free plan, they are enabling the company to keep track of their location data, in an anonymous manner, and are given permission to sell it to other companies, whilst making this explicitly clear of course. It should also be worth noting that although the data is being sold, it should only be used for ethical means. They could then still further promote their care for user privacy by promoting the premium version, as a version of the app that allows for users to opt out of data collection in return for a "modest subscription fee." It should also be worth noting that This can be taken a step further by making the free version of the app more freemium oriented and locking certain aspects of the app behind a paywall. Transparency is a key part in following good ethical practices, as is also stated in the *ACM Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct*.