Name: Mauricio I. Reyes Villanueva
Due: 09/28/2024

### Diffie Hellman
---

- Figure out the shared secret agreed upon by Alice & Bob. This will be an integer.

- Show your work. How did you finder out the shared secret?

- Show precisely where in your process you would have failed if the integers involved were much larger.

---

1. In order to determine the shared secret we first need to determine what the random b generated by Bob was. To do this we will need to use the variables we've eves dropped which are $ g, p, B, and A$. Ideally we would then use the information we know to find $b$ in $B = g^b \mod p$ but that's not possible due to how the mod function works. As such we will instead need to brute force the value of $b$ by finding all values of $b$ that are true for $B = g^p \mod p$ and trying them all until we get the $b$ that is also true for $K = A^b \mod p$.

2. We will then go on to repeat this process for $a$.

3. 

### RSA
---

- Figure out the encrypted message sent from Alice to Bob.

- Show your work. Exactly how did you figure out the message? (You should include an explanation of how the message from Alice to Bob is encoded. That is, how does Alice's intended message (whatever manner of message it may be) correspond to the integers in the plaintext that you end up with after decrypting the encrypted message?)

- Show precisely where in your process you would have failed if the integers involed were much larger.

- Explain, briefly, why the message encoding Alice used would be insecure even if Bob's keys involved larger integers.

---
